Okay, so let's talk about
how we could spawn actors.
And remember spawning is very useful for
if you have a dynamic
number of actors, which might
not be within the current state.
So basically these actors,
once they're spawns, they're alive until
they are explicitly stopped or the machine
that they were created in stops.
And so in this case,
because we're dynamically creating
these timers at any time
we want them to be dynamic.
So spawning actually makes a lot of sense.
So we're going to spawn
a new timer machine here.
And so
we could say const timer equals spawn and
we're gonna create a timer machine and
that's gonna take a duration.
So, on the add action,
we see that this is the wrong exercise.
Okay.
So, we see that there, that we are going
to send an add event with a duration.
And that duration is gonna
be a custom duration.
So that comes from events.
So we'll put events dot
duration over here.
And this is gonna be our
newly spawned timer.
So we're going to return The timers
is gonna be the context dot timers with
that timer concatenated on the end.
So concat timer.
And I use concat because it basically
makes an immutable updates and
creates a new array with that added
timer and so the current timer,
we have to think a little bit
about this one because the length
of the context dot timers is how
many timers there already are.
And when we add the timer,
that's going to be added to the end.
So, since we're adding that to the end,
we could just say context
dot timers dot length.
In other words,
if there's already three timers,
then the length is three, but
the index of the last one is two.
So if we add that timer now that timer
is going to be in the third index,
even though the length is four,
so hopefully that makes sense.
So now once we do that, let's uncomment
this so that we get to the timer and
hopefully we will see that the timer
is added successfully which it is and
we could dynamically add
a number of timers to or
we could cancel and go back to
the timer's that we already have.
Delete.
[COUGH] And there we go.
So were there any questions
about this exercise?
>> All right, so quick one that
the state is immutable like when we have
the different states we're in but for
the context it can be it's mutable, right?
Like the I know you're returning it in
like a Redux like fashion where you're,
getting a new array but
it is a mutable portion of the state.
So that's a really good question.
The question was about can basically can
context be mutated inside of this assign?
And the short answer is no,
or at least you shouldn't.
And that's because when
you have a state and
we'll go ahead and
console log dot state, so
console dot log state just show you
right over here, nor that error.
All right, so when we have this,
we have a state object and
that state object is going to also have
a previous state which is in history.
And so history is going to contain
the very last states before this new state
happened.
And that might have been context that
is different than the current states.
If we mutate context, then that mutates
the same context object both for
that previous state and the current state.
So it might make it really difficult to
do things such as compare what changed
in context.
So in general,
you don't want to mutate context directly.
You want to return
an immutable copy of context.
Xstate does help you out here though.
When you have an assign action,
you could tell it which property of the
context object that you want to assign.
And this lets you avoid doing things
like spreading the current context and
only updating that property
that you want to update.
So it makes it a little
bit easier to do that.
Now there are libraries such
as Immer which makes it
a lot easier to update
contexts in an immutable way,
even though it really
looks like mutation and
there is actually a library ot
a package called Xstate Immer.
And this allows you to grab that assign.
And since it's basically using
immer in the background,
you could update the context
as if it were mutable.
So over here, for example,
I'm updating context dot count by doing
plus plus which is a mutable action.
But because we're using
assigned from Xstate immer,
it's actually an immutable update.
So you're still safe with that one.
But yeah, in general, try to,
it should really be a rule be pure and
have your assign function be pure so
that it doesn't do any side effects.
Except spawning,
that could cause the side effects but
that's sort of built into Xstate, so
don't have to worry about that too much.
But yeah,
try not to mutate context itself.
You will notice that it will work and
it will continue to work in version 5,
if you accidentally do it but
there might be some bugs and
glitches if you decide to do
that because Xstate assumes that
context is immutable or
rather it should be immutably updated.
So hopefully that answers your question.
Yeah, and typically do the way
you're saying keep things pure.
I was just tinkering with it and
I saw that you could see that set.
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
So again, you can mutate context and
it technically will work.
I'm not gonna encourage it,
but it will work.
>> Okay, I
>> Yeah, there's something interesting
with the actor model because actors
have their own local private state.
What you can also do there is it doesn't
matter if that local private state is
mutated or not.
I'm talking about the actor model in
general, but you could totally mutate and
do whatever you want to
that local private state.
It's just that that state
should be immutably shared.
Meaning if you have an object in there and
you mutated somehow,
and you want to share that object
with another actor immutably,
then you need to create a copy of
that mutated object and send it over.
So, locally you can mutate it, but
anything external make
sure it's immutable.
And that's why a good rule of thumb is
just make sure everything's immutable so
you don't have to figure out what's
allowed, what's able to be mutated and
what's not.
So, yeah.
>> I guess this is like a small follow
up but, I saw the project's written
in TypeScript, I haven't dived
into the source code too much.
But I imagine the signature
of where you have context and
event there, you could just
mark context as read only and
then, at least in TypeScript lan it
would say hey, you can't change that.
And then you're kinda forced
to return a new context.
>> Right.
So the question was about in TypeScript,
how our context and events typed.
Context is not typed as
read only over here.
That's something that I should
probably change just to help with
anyone using TypeScript just so that
they don't accidentally mutate context.
But yeah, it should be assumed
that everything here is read only.
>> Okay, thanks.
>> Any other questions?
>> Yeah.
>> You mentioned immer and
I played around with that and
got it working pretty easily.
And it's definitely cool to see it in
a syntax that's a little more familiar but
the more I used it,
when debugging for example,
you don't have direct access to contacts
and events and I don't know, it all seemed
like maybe it's a little inconsistent
with other projects that aren't doing it.
So I just kind of felt like maybe the one
of the upsides of using it didn't
outweigh some of the more.
Do you use it a lot?
Did you find that it with the debugging
that you can't actually directly
inspect context, if you're like for
debugger in the middle of a function that
using the immer sign
>> So
the question was about Xstate immer and
being able to debug it and and
inspect it and all that, and
whether there were any problems with that.
With immer in general, the way that
immer works just real quick is
that it creates a proxy from the object
that you wants to quote unquote mutate,
and that proxy is not really a good
representation of the object,
obviously, because there's
a lot of getters and
setters on there that
are pretty opaque externally.
So, what you could do is you could
use the original function and
console dot log that.
So in immer, there's this extracting
the original state from a draft.
And you basically have this
original function that you pass in
the object where you want
the original form of that object.
And so you could console dot log that, and
that's going to be the same
as the original context.